ENGLISH | [简体中文](README_CN.md)

# **MindCos**

- [Introduction](#Introduction)
- [Applications](#Applications)
    - [Event Reconstruction](#Recon)
    - [Jet Tagging](#Tagging)
    - [Magnetic Field Prediction](#FieldPred)
- [Installation](#Installation)

## **Introduction**

Particle physics and cosmology are scientific disciplines dedicated to exploring the most fundamental laws of nature. They utilize experimental data generated by cutting-edge equipment such as high-energy colliders and particle accelerators to uncover the basic structure of matter and the origins of the universe. In these fields, data analysis is a crucial step in comprehending experimental outcomes and validating theoretical models. However, the vast volume and high complexity of the data produced by these experiments often pose significant challenges to traditional data processing methods.

To address this challenge, we aim to enhance the efficiency and accuracy of data analysis through advanced algorithms and computational technologies. We employ deep learning models to identify and analyze complex phenomena such as particle collision events, particle trajectories, and energy distributions.

Compared to traditional data processing methods, our machine learning library can significantly reduce computational costs, shorten data processing times, and improve the accuracy of results. It provides a powerful tool for researchers in particle physics and cosmology, enabling them to delve deeper into the exploration of the basic structure of matter and the origins of the universe.

MindCos is developed based on MindSpore, and it supports the analysis of a variety of experimental data while also accommodating diverse research needs. Our goal is to provide researchers, university faculty, and students with an efficient and user-friendly software for particle physics and cosmology data analysis, thereby promoting further advancements in particle physics and cosmology.

## Applications

### Event Reconstruction

|Application|dataset|Network|GPU|CPU|
|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
|Tracking Reconstruction|Muon g-2 Experiment synthetic data|GNN|X|✔|
|Neutrino Reconstruction|TRIDENT Simulation data|GNN|X|X|

### Jet Tagging

|Application|dataset|Network|GPU|CPU|
|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
|ParticleNet|Top-Quark Data|EdgeConv|X|X|
|LLP@CEPC|CEPC Simulation Higgs Data|Heterogeneous GNN|X|X|
|LorentzNet|Quark-Gluon Data|Lorentz Equivariant Graph Neural Network|X|✔|

### Magnetic Filed Prediction

|Application|dataset|Network|GPU|CPU|
|-----|-----|-----|-----|-----|
|Magnetic Field Prediction|Helmholtz coil data|PINN|X|✔️|
|Magnetic Field Prediction|Helmholtz coil data|DeepONet|X|X|

## Installation

Follow the installation instruction:
```bash
https://www.mindspore.cn/install
```

Example:
```bash
conda create -n MindCos python==3.9
pip install https://ms-release.obs.cn-north-4.myhuaweicloud.com/2.2.14/MindSpore/unified/x86_64/mindspore-2.2.14-cp39-cp39-linux_x86_64.whl --trusted-host ms-release.obs.cn-north-4.myhuaweicloud.com -i https://pypi.tuna.tsinghua.edu.cn/simple
```

Install the dependency:
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Install the GPU version: [install](gpu_version_install.txt)


